>> Hey, all. >> Hey, Brian. Hey, Madison.
>> Hey, there. >> Awesome to be streaming here on YouTube.
And I think we're just going to jump right into it. So let's kick this off.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines directly
to your earbuds. This is episode 268, recorded January 26, 2022. I'm Michael Kennedy.
>> And I'm Brian Aiken. >> And I'm Madison Swain-Bowden.
Hey, Madison, great to have you here.
- So fantastic to be here.
- Yeah, yeah, we talked to you before at PyCascades
where you were on the hosting side.
Now we've turned the tables.
- Right, tables are turned a little bit, yeah.
- They absolutely have.
So why don't you tell folks about yourself
before we jump into the news?
- Thanks, yeah, I am a senior data engineer
at a company called Automattic.
We do WordPress, which is, surprisingly,
I recently heard that it backs 40% of the internet.
And so that was really surprising.
- So much of the world is on WordPress.
It's unbelievable. - I know, I know.
Yeah, and I work with the OpenVerse team there,
which I'll talk about a little bit later in the show.
- Yeah, fantastic.
- Cool.
- Yeah, so Brian, shall you kick us off
on the first thing?
- Yeah, sure. - Something about parentheses?
I like Python 'cause it generally doesn't have
that many parentheses,
but you were gonna tell us that it should have more.
- Yes, well, we have them with function calls, right?
And tuples.
So actually because there's function calls and tuples,
both these parentheses, there's a confusion that happens.
And so I just saw this the other day,
a PEP 679 was added,
submitted by Pablo Salgado
to allow parentheses in the assert statements.
So what happens like currently,
I don't know if there's examples in here,
but what happens currently is if you call assert,
you're not supposed to use parentheses.
Actually, you can't right now.
You can, but it's wrong.
So if you-
- It's one of those princess bride things,
like that doesn't mean what you think it means.
- It doesn't mean what you think it means.
So what happens is you give assert,
asserts a statement within Python,
you give it an expression to evaluate,
and you can also give it a comment,
like a string to add a message if the failure happens.
But what happens is sometimes people think it's
like a function and put those within parentheses
and it looks like a function call
and it looks visually fine.
But what happens is it doesn't matter
what the expression evaluates to
because it's a two value tuple
and especially if you've got a string in there
the string's not non-zero.
So the tuple evaluates to a true value
and your assert never fails.
- And the tuple is never none.
And so you're good to go.
- Well, it is a good way to pass the test.
- Go ahead.
- Yeah, I feel like this is one of those like Python gotchas
like if you have one and if you assign a variable
to one comma, then you get a tuple
instead of just the one, right?
- Yes.
- And particularly with print being changed
from a statement to a function,
I think it like makes a lot of sense for people to assume
that assert is also a function.
And it's kind of an odd duckling in the language
because it is just a keyword.
- So this PEP is just to say, let's allow both.
Let's go ahead, because right now there's no real reason
to pass in a tuple as a full expression.
It just doesn't, it's always gonna be true.
It's a no op.
So let's go ahead and add that to the language
and allow people to call it as a function if they want to.
And there's ASTs around it
to make it like basically be the same thing.
I think this is a no brainer.
I think we should just get it done as soon as possible.
Hopefully we can get it into then,
3.11 or 3.12 or something like that.
- I wonder too, if having it as a function
might help with autocomplete and some IDEs.
Because I think right now when you do the assert,
you don't get that suggested arguments
or suggested parameters that you do with a function.
And so it might help there, yeah.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, or if you're trying to put too many things in there,
it won't tell you.
- Exactly, yeah. - That it's wrong,
all those things, yeah.
- Yeah, hopefully this will go through.
- I hope so as well.
So let's talk about local ghost.
So Local Ghost is a blog by,
let me get the name right here, by Sophie Kunin.
And she blogged or wrote about everything I Googled
in a week as a professional software engineer.
- Oh, cool.
- So I wanted to highlight this
because there's a lot of folks out there
who listen to the show and just are in the industry
who feel like they don't quite add up
or they don't belong or whatever
because they feel like they get stuck and lost
and banging off things, you know, and I can tell you,
we were just talking about it last time with a joke,
right, Brian, like, I hate programming,
I hate programming, I hate programming, it works,
I love programming, but the hate part,
there's a lot of searching, a lot of Googling
and bouncing around from that.
And so here's just another pro software developer,
pro in the sense it's her job,
and she's been doing it for a while,
and it just talks about like, okay, what did I do?
So what she searches is slightly different
than what we would search because she mostly is a front end
and node, mostly JavaScript type of developer,
but it doesn't really matter.
You can sort of see there's some basic stuff.
NPM React testing library.
And what's nice is she puts a little comment
behind a lot of these like,
why did she search for this?
Not just the word, like during a React upgrade,
looking at dependencies to see the latest versions
and checking for breaking changes.
And then React Apollo release notes, totally normal.
And then undo a rebase, oops.
(both laughing)
- Or just in there.
- Yeah, exactly.
Or just silence warning, or maybe it's undo commit.
No, what did I do?
I can't push this.
Just silence warning.
Don't judge me, okay?
So there's a bunch of interesting things
and it kind of goes along there.
So you all can look through it.
I don't wanna go through all the details
'cause there's just a lot of stuff.
What were you gonna point out there, Madison?
- No, it's just a lot of fun and interesting searches.
And I think like if we were all to do this sort of analysis
for ourselves, it would be kind of
an interesting retrospective.
- It would be super interesting.
Yeah, like what surprised you most about your search history?
Let's see, there's a few, I think one on Friday
down here at the end of the week that was pretty,
yeah, I put my notes, I'll pull it up down here.
So one that I thought was interesting was
She searched for expecting a parsed GraphQL document.
Perhaps you need to wrap the query in a string,
quote GQL tag.
And the content of that's not super interesting,
but what that is exactly an exception message, right?
In some sort of code.
And for people who don't do this,
you should take the error messages
and put them straight into Google
or straight into DuckDuckGo
or wherever you put search things.
and it is so good at finding problems.
- With quotes.
- Yeah, exactly.
Maybe quotes on the really important bits, right?
Like I really wanna make sure it's GraphQL
and not some other document or something.
- I would say half the time when I do that,
it takes me exactly to the GitHub issue
that describes the problem that I'm experiencing.
- It's surprisingly effective, isn't it?
- Yeah, it's absolutely.
- Why is this works so well?
The thing that blew my mind most once is I had a friend,
this is way back, I mean, we're talking like early 2000s.
that he was using Outlook.
Don't judge him, it was a long time ago.
And he was using Outlook and it was just stopped working.
It gave him some weird error
that had almost no message, just a number.
So I just searched Outlook, that number and boom,
here's the exact fix.
It's just like, are you kidding me?
I just love that.
- Yeah, I love it so much.
A couple others, semantic HTML contact details.
Wanted to check if address tag was relevant here.
I highlight that because here's somebody
who's a professional HTML developer,
basically doing front end stuff.
And still they're Googling to see,
does this address tag match here?
Like, should I use this block,
this HTML tag in this situation, right?
So it's, even if you work in stuff day to day,
there's stuff that you just go,
like, I'm just gonna leave that to the search engine
and distributed cognition and not have to,
you know, memorize every detail of what I'm working in.
And then finally, I just thought this was fun.
Editing host file.
This was the search, not the action.
Desperate times and it didn't even work.
(laughing)
That was the comment.
- No.
- Anyway, I think this is fun
and I thought I'd just share it
because I think it's interesting
for people to compare notes.
- One of the things I noticed recently was I don't,
I don't remember the exact way you're supposed to get
to GitHub repos.
So I usually just Google GitHub and then my repo name
just to get to the repo.
- Exactly that, yeah.
(laughing)
- Nice.
- Well, a lot of times I search for like a project
and then it brings up like PyPI
or some other like the read the docs.
I was like, no, I want, I want GitHub.
Take me to GitHub.
- Yeah, I'm always like, all right, fine.
I'll click the PyPI so I can click on the source code.
- Exactly, exactly.
How many links do I have to go through
just to get to the repo?
- I know I'm two clicks away.
That's good enough.
Let's do this.
(laughing)
- Yeah, I have a couple of thoughts on this.
First of all, localghost.dev is an amazing domain name.
I absolutely adore that.
And the second is, it's really great seeing articles
and posts like this.
I see a lot of seniors, particularly like senior women
and other underrepresented minorities
talking about this sort of thing.
And I think it really helps to dispel the myth
that you have to be an expert who has every command
for every utility memorized in order to be a senior dev.
Like a lot of us are doing these sorts of Googles, right?
We're like looking up the function signature
for something that's like in the standard library,
you know, we're all doing this.
And so I think it's really valuable
to share something like this,
particularly for people who are new.
- Yeah, some of the best skill acquisition
isn't memorizing things,
it's remembering that the feature was there.
- Exactly, yes. - And we look for it.
- Yes. - Right, exactly.
I need to know just enough that I can Google it
to get to where I wanna be, absolutely.
And Johnny out in the audience also thinks
this is interesting.
Yeah, we all think this is great, fantastic.
All right, I did give a quick shout
at PyCascades previously, Madison,
you wanna tell us about your first item?
- Yeah, I wanted to share about it.
So PyCascades is coming up in less than two weeks,
which is really exciting.
We have another year of just excellent and diverse talks
from an array of different subjects and expertise levels.
Last year, we were online, and we're
going to be online again this year using the same platform
that we did last year.
And a lot of people really enjoyed that platform,
so we're excited to use it again.
We're hoping to do some watch parties in Seattle, Portland,
and Vancouver.
But unfortunately, reality wanted us not to do that.
So we opted against that.
Reality intruded, yeah.
Yeah.
But we're so excited to be doing this again this year.
And one of the things that I'm really excited about
is that we have the PSF's Diversity, Equity,
and Inclusion Working Group doing a meet and greet
as sort of our first event on Saturday.
And so they have a form that they
are sharing for just trying to understand
the landscape around diversity in the Python community.
And so we have that linked in the show notes, if you would like to fill that out.
And we are going to have socials on Friday and Saturday night.
And we had a DJ last year.
We're hoping to have a DJ again this year on Friday night.
And then we'll be doing sprints on Sunday.
And tickets are still available.
We'll be selling them throughout the event too.
So because it's a virtual event, there's...
It's not like NFTs.
There's no digital scarcity with these.
So please feel free to buy a ticket whenever you have a chance.
And we hope to see you there.
>> That's a fun conference.
I've enjoyed going to it when it was in person.
So it's cool.
It's still going.
I can't wait for it to get back to being actually in person.
>> I know.
We were hoping.
We were hoping to dip our toes into it this year.
But just wasn't going to happen.
And I should also mention, too, we're having talks from some well-known folks in the Python
community like Thursday Prom and Jay Miller who I know you had on Talk Python to me recently.
Yeah, just very recently.
Yeah, yeah. And we have some first time speakers as well like Joseph Riddle and Isaac Nga.
So we're there's a lot of really great talks that that we're looking forward to.
Yeah, super. Cool. All right. Brian, back to parentheses and stuff.
- Yeah, well, maybe not parentheses.
- Stuff that happens between parentheses.
- So this interesting article by Seth Larson
that I ran across that says strict Python function
parameters, and I thought strict,
what do we mean by strict Python function parameters?
And the idea is let's put everything together.
So we have, we've got keyword only parameters
and that's a little small on screen,
but keyword only parameters is where you can put an asterisk
in the middle of your parameter list.
And it says that everything after that has to be a keyword.
It can't be, you can't pass that in as positional.
And I'm not sure exactly how that works really,
but it's kind of, it's useful.
And then you can also put defaults in there, of course,
for things.
And it's just that separating of where your keyword
positional and keyword arguments go.
And it's a cool thing.
That's helped allow people to add parameters before.
So this was a nice addition.
And then also we've got,
those are keyword only parameters.
We also have positional only.
So with the slash,
you can say everything before the slash
is a positional only.
You can't pass it in as a keyword parameter.
And it's, the natural progression is,
hey, let's just do both of them at the same time.
And I didn't actually, for some reason,
I didn't realize you could do this.
- I didn't either, yeah.
- And so what, so then you're gonna have
your positional parameters first,
and then a slash, and then a star,
And then you'll have,
and then all your keyword parameters after that.
What happens then is you're, both of them are true.
So you have to have the positionals first
and then the keywords after.
And so what's the benefit?
This just, it looks like added syntax to confuse people.
But there are a lot of benefits.
One of the benefits is really that your documents
and your code and your example code
And all examples people look,
if they look up some other GAP repo
or something using your API,
all the examples are gonna look kind of the same.
And this is sort of something we're used to
in other languages.
I was actually surprised in Python
that you could rearrange your input arguments,
especially the keyword ones,
you can rearrange them and they work fine,
but it's confusing sometimes.
And I just actually think this is kind of a neat idea.
I think that especially for API or, you know,
library API entry points,
doing something like this might make complete sense.
And it's something I'm gonna look into considering
just to make sure people use something consistently.
The article also goes through a thing
about empowering library authors
to have flexibility to change things.
And it's a good thing to read up on,
but I was curious what you guys thought about
If I were having to have an API or you were looking at API
and it had this slash star in the middle of everything,
what would you think?
- I mean, I really like this concept
and I'm glad that it's a feature of Python
because of that uniformity that it can create.
I've never had an opportunity where I felt like
this was something that I really should use.
But I think that's a large part
because all of the stuff that I work on
is usually internal tools.
And so even if it is open source,
there's not like a public API that I'm building.
And so that--
- Right, if you're consuming it versus creating it
for others, it's very different, right?
- Exactly, exactly, yeah.
And so I think it's always a good thing
to keep in the back pocket when you like have
a particular contract that you really wanna enforce
with how functions are used and keywords and whatnot.
- Yeah, I also am glad that it's here.
And for the same reason as Madison,
and I don't use it very often because to the extent
that I do make open source libraries that are pretty basic
and don't have tons of like tutorials
or anything about them,
maybe I should think more about this, honestly.
But I do like the idea that you can say,
no, this is going to be like this,
specifically for certain things.
And say, this stuff you cannot use as a keyword argument,
you have to just pass positional.
This stuff you must, it has to go in this order
and so on.
Yeah, I like it.
- Yeah, one of the things I see is people looking
at other examples and saying like,
so if you just have normal arguments,
you can pass them in as keywords,
even if most people use positional,
and then you can reorder the keywords
and put them in a different order.
And then somebody else might look at your code,
copy it and then take off the keywords
and now they're in the wrong order.
And that'll mess things up.
This is a Dean added a comment of,
so def underscore, yeah, star, this is legit syntax.
That's funny.
I can't even read that out loud.
It's so confusing.
- Looks like code golf is what it looks like.
Goodness.
- Anyway.
I think it's like typing in the sense that it's a good feature that's there and it can
be helpful for making things more explicit in Python.
But part of the power of Python is that it's very versatile and approachable.
And so it's I think it's nice too that it's not like this is something that you are required
to do for every function that you write.
Yeah.
Yeah, I do like the flexibility there.
All right.
Let me tell you about something that seems a little bit
contrary to the Python way,
but I think people will find useful.
So over on pypi.org, we have 350,000 plus packages,
which is utterly mind blowing.
I remember when it was 75,000,
and I'm like, wow, look how many there are, it's insane.
So a lot of the superpowers of Python
is the ability to use these packages.
And people will say, I'm using Python
because it's really great at working with Excel files.
Well, Python's not actually good at working with Excel files,
but there are many libraries for Python, which that's true.
And so you have this spectrum of,
what do people mean when they say Python is great?
But I do think these packages clearly are super important.
So why do I bring this up to start this section off?
I want to talk about a way to not use PyPI,
but still do some cool stuff.
There's this thing called Murek, as in small requests,
over here, created by--
it's got a name.
Yes, if it pulls up.
Shriyaram.
So very cool project here.
And the idea is it's request-like,
not a drop-in replacement for requests,
but like requests with limited features.
But if you're using a limited subset of what requests could do,
you could use this library and have zero external dependencies,
no virtual environments required, no pip install -r or friends required,
and just have a real simple thing and not have to fall back to just urllib,
which is pretty cool.
So it does standard stuff.
I would recommend maybe even from import mu rec as requests
and then request.get request.post.
- See what breaks, yeah.
- Yeah, exactly.
I mean, and then see if it works or not.
So it does have some limitations, quite a few actually.
Like it doesn't support connection pooling, for example.
But if you do request.get, neither does that.
You have to create a client session
and then use the session to do get and so on
if you want connection pooling.
Apparently uses a lot less memory.
But the main reason besides just convenience of like,
I want to give you a Python file you can run,
or a set of Python files you can run the top level one
without any external dependencies.
So that's pretty nice.
The other one is to avoid supply chain
attack vulnerabilities, right?
We've talked before about people putting malicious stuff
into PyPI.
We talked about the guy, Marek, I believe it was,
who had sabotaged his NPM packages and those kind of things
and the cascading change of the super dependencies
in the JavaScript world meant that was really, really bad.
So here's a way you could put something
that does requests like things into your code
and it doesn't have any dependencies.
It doesn't have, there's no way someone's going to take over
that account and put something malicious there
or even maybe worse is like the dependency
of the dependency of the dependency
is where the problem is.
So, this I think is pretty interesting.
- Yeah, security is in a lot of people's minds recently
with the log4j stuff and then, yeah,
all of these supply chain attacks that are happening,
particularly in the JavaScript space.
It seems like a lot more happens in that area
more so than like Python,
but I feel like the packaging story
is really similar in both.
So it's useful to take the lessons learned
from the JavaScript ecosystem, pull them back into Python.
I think something like this is really valuable,
particularly, I know some companies have just
very difficult bureaucratic processes
to like get requirements in.
And so if you say like, this is just this one file,
it has this license, we just need this,
makes it a lot easier.
- We can review the one file, it won't auto update.
- Exactly.
- Yeah, so that's the good news.
There's a couple of things worth pointing out.
went over in the PR section is a lot of the stuff inside
is not PEP 8 compliant or other stuff.
So if you drop it into your project,
it'll give you a bunch of warnings.
So you might want to run black on it
before you put it in your project.
I did a PR that's suggesting that that should just
be part of it.
There's an ongoing conversation about that.
Also, it doesn't support a couple of the main methods,
like .json for consuming APIs and raise for status,
which if you don't get a successful status,
that are raising exceptions,
so you don't carry on with bad data.
So those two are really good.
The race for status is supposed to be put in soon.
The JSON one is up for debate.
With all that said, I have a branch
that has all those fixes as F8 compliant,
f-strings has those two functions that you might use.
So people can use that as well if they want.
- Did you put a PR to get those back in?
- Oh yeah, yeah, that's what I was pointing out before.
I absolutely, yeah.
They're not, I'm debating with the author
whether or not he thinks that those are appropriate
to add to it.
- Maybe you could rename it medium rack if.
(laughing)
- A medium sized rack.
So anyway, it's not super important.
It's not that big of a deal, but I mean,
you know, the effect of actually adding those,
they're not huge amounts of code that you've got to add
to make this happen.
Like the JSON one is literally one line of code.
You could take it. I mean, do you count the function definition of the separate line?
It's two if you got to count the def, but it's like super super small
So if people can grab mine and they can add it or they can grab theirs and then
Add it whatever
So now that's the good news. You're good the project and make mu2 rec
So much more mu
Yeah, exactly. Now. Here's the reality of what I found. I have a lot of projects that have
10, 20 dependencies because there are tens of thousands
of lines of code, and they do a lot of stuff.
Every single one of those where I thought,
oh, this would be kind of fun just to cut down
on the dependencies and the dependencies of the dependencies
because what I do with the requests is real simple.
Usually call an API, get some JSON,
get some values out of it.
It'd be nice to do something like this.
The reality is so many things depend upon requests.
Sentry, for example, depends on requests.
MailChimp's API depends on requests,
and et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
So by the time you get a project built up with other stuff,
it's already got requests required and installed and so on.
So it's like, this is for like a smallish app
that doesn't have really many other dependencies
that I think this makes a lot of sense for,
'cause if you depend on a lot of things,
you're gonna end up with requests
as a dependency real quick.
- Yeah, that's a really solid point.
- Yeah, thanks.
Lastly, for people out there listening,
wouldn't it be fantastic if a request itself
offered an official mini request
and HTTPX offered a single file version
and AIO HTTP client offered a single file version?
Like, yeah, it only has 80% of the functions,
but if those functions don't have dependencies,
maybe just drop those in and offer,
I don't know, it would be great.
One of the things I like about actually alternatives
either within a project itself as an alternative
or these forked projects that have the same API
is they might have benefits.
And so, but you have to weigh those.
So it does encourage actually a nice software design
of a couple of things.
One of them is isolate your dependencies
to as few files as possible.
So if you only have one of your modules accessing requests,
then you only have one place you need to change it
to this new module import.
- Yeah, absolutely.
- The other thing is testing, testing your behavior.
So instead of implementation,
so if you test your behavior and you've got it isolated,
you can drop in a thing, run your CI, see if it all works,
throw it to a few beta people and run with it if it works.
- Yeah, quite cool.
Yeah, one thing that could be useful and also potentially extremely dangerous is some like
Python level capacity for shimming a module.
So like in the situation that you describe, Michael, where you have a ton of dependencies
that all require requests, you could pull in something like mu rec, and then just say
like this is a request.
Python, I want you to think of this as requests.
But obviously, that has, I mean, it's just an idea.
It has some pretty bad security implications
with people being able to usurp that, so.
- Yeah, it may cause some unexpected behavior,
but yeah, it's also, could be good.
All right, just put your entire application
inside of a patch statement.
No, I'm just kidding.
- What I'm hearing is that we need to make
our entire application one file in every case.
- Yes, yes.
- And that will just solve all the problems.
- And just one function, actually.
- Just one main.
- It's perfect.
- No, I'm just kidding.
- We don't even need a function in Python, right?
- Yeah, okay, yeah, no functions.
- Gotcha.
- Yeah, it just runs once, top to bottom, let's go.
Now I was dreaming of a world where like,
there's a simple use case that you don't have to have
a bunch of dependencies and dependencies,
but it's probably a little extreme
and you don't wanna take it very far at all.
All right, Brian, what you got for the next one here?
- Oh, this is--
- Oh, that's your extra?
Oh, no, Madison, you're taking us out for our main items.
Go for it.
- Yeah, welcome to Openverse.
This is not the metaverse, but everything is,
I say call the tech industry a song
because everything's a verse these days.
But this is a search engine for openly licensed media.
This is something that the WordPress community
is supporting.
And so what I mean by openly licensed media
is images and audio.
That's what we have currently, but we're hoping down the line
to have things like video, 3D models, text, all assets
and media that you can use without having to pay for them.
And just some licenses require attribution, others don't.
A lot of them are free for remix and reuse.
And so this used to be called CC Search
under the Creative Commons purview,
but they've handed it off to us to help Shepard
into the future.
And so if you are looking for content to use on your blog
or your podcast or anything that you're creating,
any sort of content that you're creating.
- Your conference presentations,
your YouTube, your courses, whatever.
There's a lot of times I'm like, I need an image
and I need to be able to use it legally.
- Or snippet of audio to throw someplace.
This is awesome.
- Yeah, so I'll show an example here in the live stream.
I'm going to type Jupyter, and I have to spell it right.
I typed Jupyter last time.
And yeah, you just get a bunch of pictures of Jupyter
and then also different sound clips
that we have mixed in if you want all of the results.
You can also filter by just certain media types,
like seeing just images or seeing just the audio results.
And then when you click on an image,
you'll see the attribution for that image
right there alongside it.
And so you can just copy that and put it in your website
after you link the image.
And we have over 600 million images in OpenVerse,
and more audio, and more images, and more just media in general
to come.
Fantastic.
Alvaro asks--
Oh, and if we search-- sorry.
If we search Jupyter, there's some fun conference-y screenshots.
Oh, yeah, right on.
So there's lots to use here.
Cool.
Alvaro asks, can you search by license type?
Yes.
So I'm sharing this in the live stream,
but on the right, the first filter that we have
is by different license types.
And a lot of these are, I believe,
they're Creative Commons license, but not all of them are.
We have public domain markered licenses as well.
And then you can search by use too,
depending on how you're using that.
So if you're using it commercially,
that's gonna have different licenses and implications
for you versus modifying and adapting.
And then we have, I mean, Openverse serves as like
an aggregate for different entities that host some
of this openly licensed media.
So things like museums, NASA's photos, that sort of thing.
And so you can also search by provider too.
So if you're looking for space photos and you say,
I just want NASA's authority on this,
then you can sort of filter by that aggregate.
- Yeah.
This is a constant challenge and it's great.
It's a challenge for blogs.
It's a challenge for all these things, right?
But it makes perfect sense why WordPress
would be interested in this.
- Totally, yeah.
And we're hoping to have it integrated
into WordPress down the line.
So if you're working on a WordPress site
and you wanna add an image,
one of the blocks that you can pull up
is just search on Openverse.
And then you pull it in
and it will pull the attribution in with it.
- Oh, yeah, nice.
- Don't have to do a whole lot of extra work.
So we're hoping that that's gonna be coming
down the line too.
- And yeah, it's so easy to just like go to Google images
and find an image,
but it's harder to find the appropriate attribution for that
and particularly you can get into some very interesting
legal spaces if you're making money off of that.
- Right, I mean, it makes perfect sense
if you're like a high school student
doing like a research, who cares, right?
But it starts to push the limit if you're selling something
or you're making a book or whatever.
- Yeah, one of the things I think is interesting
is that the difference between free,
like non-commercial and commercial.
And we think of it like big companies or blogs or something.
And it's not that cut and dry because like you start,
say you're starting a podcast,
you start getting sponsors
and you're making like five bucks a week.
That's commercial,
but it's not like I can afford a huge license.
So yeah.
- Yeah, absolutely. - Right, exactly.
- And maybe you started it non-commercially
and then it became commercial, right?
But you had already used it and stuff like that as well.
How about a real time feature request?
Dean Langston asks, says,
I wish it had a,
this is a ping with a transparent background.
- I hear it, I hear it.
I use that feature all the time in Google images.
Yeah, we actually just finished a redesign of the site.
We launched yesterday for this redesign,
which is really exciting.
But we have, I mean,
We have lots of stuff that we want to start adding to this.
Turns out that making a search engine is not easy.
Surprise.
So there's a lot of work to be done.
But that's a great feature request.
All of this, too, is a great plug.
So thank you for that comment.
All of this is open source.
And so if you just search Openverse GitHub,
like we had mentioned earlier-- because if you just
search Openverse, you'll actually get the site--
you can go and make an issue on any one of the number of repos
that we have for describing this project.
And on top of that too, if you know of a content provider,
like a museum or whatnot that has an API
that could have its images added to Openverse,
we're trying to make it really easy to write those,
we call them provider ingestion scripts.
So even if you just know of one,
you can make an issue for us
and we'll write the provider script.
But we also love public contributions.
If you have a source that you wanna add
and you want to get it into open first.
- Oh yeah, that's great.
All right, Brian, now are you ready for your extras?
- I am, yeah.
So we were talking about security
and supply chain for packages.
And so I noticed this actually, gosh, it just came out.
Like, was it yesterday?
Yesterday, Brett Cannon announced that he's got a,
he has a GitHub action that called a pip secure install.
that he published and apparently VS Code,
VS Code Python uses it.
But the thing is, is, is it just sort of,
if you pip install something with requirements file,
it could have, who knows what it all is in there
and it, and your requirements.
And then they have dependencies and they have dependencies.
Well, this, this secure install is,
allows you to do through GitHub actions,
use a requirements file, but you have to have,
you have to have stuff in it.
So you have to have no,
it doesn't pick up any dependencies
and it requires hashes.
So you have to have a full requirements file
with all of the dependency tree in there with the hashes
to eliminate these like supply chain problems.
It doesn't eliminate them,
but once you've tested a good package,
you can just put this in there.
So I just wanted to give a shout out
for this project by Brett.
So that was cool.
The second thing I wanted to shout out,
which I'm like totally excited.
Basically this is a shout out to everybody out there
listening to this that has supported
the Python testing with pytest book.
I was talking right before we started recording
that today is the last day I get to touch it.
I get to, my final edits are going in,
but because of all the beta,
the beta purchasers, it's supported the rewrite
and just been awesome support.
And right now it's at number two
is the best seller on Pragmatic.
So that's pretty exciting.
- Congratulations, that's awesome.
- That's fantastic, yeah.
- Madison, back to you.
Anything you wanna give a quick shout out to?
- Yeah, a couple quick things.
One thing I forgot to mention about OpenFirst,
it's also written mostly in Python too.
So if you're familiar with Python,
you can help contribute.
- Not PHP? - No, no.
That's, yeah, it's kind of interesting
'cause most of WordPress is PHP and JavaScript,
but OpenVerse is a fun little extra blob on the side
that runs in Python.
- Yeah, beautiful.
- Speaking of small Python web apps and whatnot,
some folks in Seattle recently launched
a new police accountability and information tool.
And so this is just a tool, it's spd.watch for the URL.
And it's a tool that just allows you to search
for police officers in the Seattle area
and get information on them.
So, you know, if you're interacting with an officer,
sort of what their history is,
how long they've been with the force, that sort of thing.
It can be really useful for community safety
and also just accountability.
And you all had mentioned JUST in episode 242.
I just wanted to give a shout out to it.
I have been using this for every single project that I have touched.
When I go to a project that doesn't have just, I get very angry.
It's so fantastic.
I mean, the fact that you can add comments for different recipes, your recipes can build
on other recipes.
There's a lot of complexity that you can have in the just file, which makes it easy for
new people to come on and start contributing.
So if you have like lots of Docker containers
that require certain specialization in some sense,
you don't have to write this big long read me
that describes all the steps you say,
download just and then just run.
And that's it.
It's so nice.
- I totally forgot about just,
so I'm glad you brought it up.
- Great, I just, I can't sing his praises enough, honestly.
Although I do have to say its name does make it
very difficult to do Google searches.
And then lastly, I just wanna give a shout out
to the GitHub package registry.
That's ghcr.io for GitHub container registry.io.
They do free Docker image hosting for open source projects.
And I'm not sure what the pricing is for,
there's, we could see the pricing,
but yeah, they do free for open source projects,
which Openverse is taking advantage of.
And I've used on a number of personal projects
and it's been incredibly helpful to just be able
to build and push an image for free with GitHub Actions
and then have that hosted for free
on GitHub Container Registry.
- Oh, that's cool.
Yeah, that looks handy.
- Cool. - Nice.
- Yeah, good ones.
I got a couple as well.
Yeah, I got a couple.
Let me go back here.
So very kind message came out on Twitter saying,
"Here's a really cool way you can go to the transcripts
"for the podcast, which is on GitHub,
"and then you can do like a search across them
"using some nice GitHub search features."
- Absolutely true.
Very nice.
I also wanted to point out a couple of things
that we actually have some neat features
that people can play with.
First of all, we have a search engine.
You can click on the upper right.
This is a, look, we're live streaming.
So the thing you can search for,
so I could search for like Pytest
and it would come up with the episodes and whatnot.
I can search for Hawaii.
- Every single episode.
- Yeah, exactly.
So we get like our Python on the beach.
So we did recently and whatnot.
- And search for just was very difficult,
but through no fault of your own.
- Yeah, if you search for just,
we get a whole bunch of stuff back.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But pretty neat.
It also has a JSON API.
If you want to consume that,
they can go and search for stuff
and then it'll come up with,
you know, a JSON variant of results and whatnot.
- Nice.
- Yeah.
So that has been there for a while.
So people can check that out and that's cool.
But I also wanted to point out something brand new, Brian.
I don't know if you even got a chance to play with this
'cause I just did this.
- I did, it's so cool.
- So good.
So if you go to a trans, the transcripts,
So if you're on any episode, usually on the right,
it'll say, unless the screen is really small,
then it might be the bottom.
It'll say full transcript.
And then you can go in here and there are transcripts
which are searchable and there's a play thing,
but there's also now a ability to click
on any paragraph or sentence,
the little play button next to it.
And it'll just start playing the episode at that time.
So if people wanna go back and use what we've been doing
for four or five years, whatever it's been,
has resources, that should make it a little bit easier.
>> Did you backport this to old episodes also?
>> Yeah. Let me tell you how I did it.
Because the transcripts, if you look at them,
they just have a timestamp there.
>> Yeah.
>> I use this really cool regular expressions 101 or
regx101.com tool website to build up the regx using named groups.
And let me just check this out, which is on the screen,
you guys, you'll check out the link if you're listening.
You can put the thing you wanna search for
and then the groups and the regex,
it'll show if it's a match,
it'll actually highlight and name the different elements
and color code the syntax of your regular expression
elements into like name sections
and all sorts of cool stuff.
What do you think of that?
- It's awesome.
If I'm using, if I'm writing a regular expression
that's longer than like three or four characters,
then I'm using Regex 101.
Like the site is so fantastic.
- It is absolutely, I totally agree.
It's kind of new to me.
Felix-
- It's just on the right too.
- Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, Felix has loved it as well.
And so it also gives you help.
So if I put it like on the D plus,
which means find one or more numbers,
it'll say exactly, you know,
what that kind of stuff means and so on.
So you can say like D down here and it'll tell you,
you know, what is that doing and so on.
I don't know, somewhere there's a search.
But it was nice that it will actually show you
which sections and give you extra information about it
and all kinds of neat stuff.
So--
- And full descriptions too,
of like what particular thing is doing is so great.
- There you go.
So if you like hover over the backslash D plus
or whatever I got here, it says,
Meta escape matches a digit equivalent to bracket zero to
nine, here's a name group.
Here's just that matches the character
And you just, as you hover, you know,
starts the start of the text, right?
It broke carrot.
And as you hover over these things,
you get real time, like auto-complete
for like the meaning of that section.
Because so often-
- And like a full explanation in the top right too.
- Yeah.
- Which can be really helpful.
- Absolutely.
Because so often when I look at this kind of stuff,
it's right only, you know, like I got it working
and then I can't decipher it again.
So you can put it back in here
and come to an understanding, which is cool.
All right, one more thing real quick,
a new video on my Python short series that I'm doing,
do you even need loops in Python?
People can check that out.
So it's really about list comprehensions and fun stuff
you can do with list comprehensions in Python.
So I've been having a lot of fun with that.
And the open verse sounds very interesting
for grabbing content to throw in some of those videos
as well.
(thudding)
Yeah, absolutely.
All right, well, that brings us to our joke, I do believe.
Are you all ready for it?
- I have one.
There's a video, sorry.
This got shared in, speaking of Python loops,
I don't know that I'm gonna be able to show it,
but we'll, fingers crossed here.
This video was shared in a work channel recently,
and I'm not gonna be able to show it,
but it's a snake that is moving around a box.
Oh, here we go.
Perfect.
(laughs)
- Oh, I love it.
- You have Python loops.
- So it's a snake slithering.
Yes, exactly.
Oh my God.
It's a Python slithering around a box,
which is rotating in a circle.
Here's a simple loop with Python.
- And it also, the snake isn't moving anywhere
because of the way that it's slithering.
(laughing)
So anyway, you really don't need loops.
- I love it.
That's awesome.
Roller out there says,
"The new Python short channel is great."
Thanks, Michael.
And Alvaro says,
I usually test my regex with sed and grep on the command line.
This seems easier.
Regex, yeah, that thing is awesome.
All right, so I've got a joke that is not my joke,
but is from, instead, Josh Thurston.
He sent them in a little while ago.
So there's kind of three together in sequence.
So here we go.
How did the hacker get away from the police?
He just ransomware.
Oh, that joke makes me want to cry.
"Oh, where do you find a hacker?
Indie Crypt."
Oh, they're so bad.
These are full, hold on, I'll add them to the stream as well.
Those are full-on dad jokes right there.
- That's two thumbs down in a good way.
- Absolutely.
Like overflows the bad buffer and becomes good again.
- Yeah, wow.
- Fantastic.
All right, well, speaking of fantastic,
great to have you here, Madison and Brian.
- So much for having me.
- You as always.
- It's good.
- Yep.
- Talk to everybody later.
- Yeah, thanks everyone for listening.
- Have fun.
[BLANK_AUDIO]